Welcome to this course. I'm really happy to have you here because Vue.js is an amazing, powerful
and really fun-to-work-with front-end framework.
Let's get started right away and dive into the first important question. What is Vue.js, or why would
you want to use it?
How does it help you?
Well, Vue.js allows you to create everything from small widgets driven by JavaScript which you
drop into existing applications; like this one which we'll create in this course where we simply replace
some content dynamically and play a nice animation with it. Over medium-sized applications where you
control the whole page
JavaScript and therefore re-render various parts making it very reactive, like this one;
another project all the way up to building big enterprise-level applications, single page applications,
where your whole web page, multiple pages (at least it views like this to the user) are driven by Vue.js which
renders significant parts of the DOM to make it look like there were different pages being loaded
but in the end, JavaScript handling all of that. Why JavaScript? Because JavaScript runs in the browser.
You don't need to reach out to any server.
You don't need to wait for any responses if you only want to re-render parts of the application.
This makes the application very reactive, it makes it feel nice and it provides awesome user experiences.
Now that is what you can do with Vue.js.
Now why would you want to choose Vue.js and not, let's say, Angular or ReactJS which you might
know which do a similar thing.
Well first of all, Vue.js is extremely lean and small regarding the file size. We're talking about 16kB
minified and gzipped
for the core framework.
Now I will say that is without the router, for example, which you would have to add extra. But even with
that it still stays very lean and small.
It's a very focused and to-the-point framework. But it's not only small, hence
providing a fast loading time,
it also is fast at runtime and telling with some benchmarks it even beats Angular and ReactJS.
Now of course that will always depend on your specific application but what we can say is it is extremely
fast at runtime; hence really again adding to this very great reactive user experience.
Now you would probably assume that a small and fast framework doesn't have that many features but you
would be wrong.
It's very feature-rich and throughout the course we will go through all the features and you will learn
how they work, how you use them, when you use them and
what the idea behind them is. You will learn that Vue.js is very extensible, for example with the
Vue.js router.
But then this extension then also fits nicely into the core framework.
And again we will walk through all these great features throughout this course.
Now with that first impression, I'd say let's dive right into it and get started with
Vue.js and build our first application as well as see how we actually get set up (spoiler...
it's very easy to do ;)
Let's do it in the next lecture.